README.md, before:

# ASX Sector Performance Analysis

This README has been created to define our project scope and overview of the data analysis project. Exploring the problem, questions, datasources and goals. 

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Data Collection](#data-collection)
- [Data Analysis](#data-analysis)
- [Projections](#projections)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

Our data analysis project has been created to assess the performance of ASX sectors during times of economic turmoil, pandemics and conflicts specifcally. We have encorporated data from both APIs with yfinance and Python libraries to develop a dataframe of historic ASX prices and identify key terms on google. Through this analysis we identify the best performing sectors on the ASX between 2018 and 2023. With this finding a portfolio of the best four sectors is created. The relation between market returns and  terms 'CORONA' and 'UKRAINE' is assessed.

___
# Installation 
### Installation - Pytrends

This guideline is created to provide support with the installation of new packages and/ or files required to utilise the Project 1 code. 

### Requirements
* Python version 3.3+ 
* Requires Requests, lxml, Pandas

### Install 
 * Open a new terminal window
	```shell 
	pip install pytrends
	```
* Connect to Google	
    ```shell
	from pytrends.request import TrendReq
	```
	```
	pytrends = TrendReq(hl = ‘en-US’, tz=360)
	```
	
### Installation - Prophet

Propet is on PyPI so you can use pip to install 
```shell 
Python -m pip install prophet
```
___
## Usage

1. Complete the Installation instructions
2. Open notesbook/project_one_final using jupyter notebook
3. Run the notebook

## Data Collection
To execute the analysis an API from Yfinance was impleneted to return the daily close price of all 11 sectors from the ASX. The data is pulled from the API as a table in daily intervals. For our analysis it is pulled for the timeframe July 2018 to June 2023 and only the 'close' data.  

The pytrends library requires calibration before it can be utilised, first we define the time zone and language we require our analysis to be conducted on. Following this an individual term will be searched for across all geographic regions. The result is a pandas DataFrame which displays the usage of the searched term from 0 to 100 across the assessed period, five years for our analysis.  

## Data Analysis
Explain the data analysis process, including how you assess the data's quality, clean it, and prepare it for analysis.

## Projections
Detail how the Prophet library is used to make projections. Explain how you determine trends and forecast sector performance.

## Contributing
If you welcome contributions, provide guidelines for how others can contribute to your project. Include details about bug reporting, feature suggestions, and pull requests.

## License
Specify the license under which your project is released.

[MIT License](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Updated Projections README.md
updated the projections to define the use of prophet in this project

README.md, after:

# ASX Sector Performance Analysis

This README has been created to define our project scope and overview of the data analysis project. Exploring the problem, questions, datasources and goals. 

## Table of Contents
- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Data Collection](#data-collection)
- [Data Analysis](#data-analysis)
- [Projections](#projections)
- [Contributing](#contributing)
- [License](#license)

## Introduction

Our data analysis project has been created to assess the performance of ASX sectors during times of economic turmoil, pandemics and conflicts specifcally. We have encorporated data from both APIs with yfinance and Python libraries to develop a dataframe of historic ASX prices and identify key terms on Google. Through this analysis, we identify the best-performing sectors on the ASX between 2018 and 2023. With this finding a portfolio of the best four sectors is created. The relation between market returns and the terms 'CORONA' and 'UKRAINE' is assessed.

___
# Installation 
### Installation - Pytrends

This guideline is created to provide support with the installation of new packages and/ or files required to utilise the Project 1 code. 

### Requirements
* Python version 3.3+ 
* Requires Requests, lxml, Pandas

### Install 
 * Open a new terminal window
	```shell 
	pip install pytrends
	```
* Connect to Google	
    ```shell
	from pytrends.request import TrendReq
	```
	```
	pytrends = TrendReq(hl = ‘en-US’, tz=360)
	```
	
### Installation - Prophet

Propet is on PyPI so you can use pip to install 
```shell 
Python -m pip install prophet
```
___
## Usage

1. Complete the Installation instructions
2. Open notebook/project_one_final using jupyter notebook
3. Run the notebook

## Data Collection
To execute the analysis an API from Yfinance was implemented to return the daily close price of all 11 sectors from the ASX. The data is pulled from the API as a table at daily intervals. For our analysis it is pulled for the timeframe July 2018 to June 2023 and only the 'close' data.  

The Pytrends library requires calibration before it can be utilised, first, we define the time zone and language we require our analysis to be conducted. Following this, an individual term will be searched for across all geographic regions. The result is a pandas DataFrame which displays the usage of the searched term from 0 to 100 across the assessed period, five years for our analysis.  

## Data Analysis
Explain the data analysis process, including how you assess the data's quality, clean it, and prepare it for analysis.

## Projections
The prophet library is incorporated to extrapolate market closes from the custom portfolio of the best-performing ASX Sectors. The Prophet library completes time series forecasting by identifying trends, seasonality and modelling. By preparing the sectors into a single returns DataFrame we can capitalise on the seasonality components pre-incorporated into the prophet model. Future insights are generated from the model, providing insight into the anticipated performance of the portfolio. Within the plot we extrapolate one year into the future with a shock occuring on 11/03/2020 to represent the CORONA pandemic announcement Additionally, another shock was incorporated on 24/02/2022 for the invasion of Russian forces into the Ukraine. 

## Contributing
If you welcome contributions, provide guidelines for how others can contribute to your project. Include details about bug reporting, feature suggestions, and pull requests.

## License
Specify the license under which your project is released.

[MIT License](LICENSE)
